

Optical Model for Subjective Refraction Assessment


Objective: to assess spherocylindrical refractive errors that lead to defocus and incorrect vision (apparent image as interpreted by the optic system), and provide an accurate optical prescription for corrective adjustments.


Summary of Proposed Approach

The thesis of this idea is to accurately model the optics of a patients eye such that a statistical determination can be made as to the type and degree of stigmatism apparent, and through this to generate a prescription or equivalent for use by the patient. A physically realistic optical simulation incorporating accurate refraction behaviour, parameterised from existing optical models available within literature (based on extensive experimental research and validation), can be used to simulate the distortion of images as perceived by a patient with various stigmatisms. Test images are used to assess the visual acuity and focus of a given eye, such as a series of images containing concentric circular rings of alternating black and white of a uniform thickness, and can be provided via an online service using readily avalable consumer hardware (smartphone and personal computer).

An optical model is used to computationally generate a set of reference images that provide a baseline (unaltered state) for comparison. The user will then view these images and have direct control over a subset of parameters within the optical model, such that adjusting these parameters with alter the displayed image based on a physically realistic simulation of optical focus and refraction.

The optical model can impliment ray/path tracing to simulate the retinal image produced when viewed through the optical model at a given set of parameters, and through an inverse transformation of the optical distortion, generate and present a distorted image (relative to the reference optical system) to the user. Through variation of the parameters, the user can tune the displayed distorted image such that it appears at optimal focus (clear separation of concentric rings at all axis), therein providing an approximation of the user's optical system via tuned parameters. Then through repetition and statistical sampling, the final prescription can be computed and provided to the user (Sphere Power, Cylinder power, Cylinder Axis).

Note that the displayed image can either be generated in real-time (if computationally feasable, resolution limitations and response time may prove unsatisfactory), or a set of pre-computed images can be generated where those correlating to the desired parameters can be displayed when appropriate. Either approach should provide a valid assessment of patient subjective refraction and a derived prescription.



Suggested Project Stages

Parameterisation of optical model to ensure accuracy to real optical visual system. This will include the confirmation of all optical components that are required to sufficiently replicate the optics of vision (DOI: 10.1117/2.6199710.0001 used for testing, recommend further research and validation of optical model components and reference parameters).


Determination of the desired parameters that are to be varied in order to approximate and model each stigmatism; definition of a standard set of distances and reference values for both optical model and testing environment (user interaction); confirmation of accuracy thresholds/tolerance required for reliable determination of valid prescription. Include confirmation of desired prescription parameters and their relation to chosen optical model component parameters.

    Example variabile parameters:

        Cornea
            shift from front-on sphere to elipse with axis and ratio (focal shift, power)
            shift in radius of curvature

        Eye Sphere
            shift in axial length (lens to retina distance)


Implimentation of optical model image distortion calculations for either real-time or pre-computed image generation. This will require calibration and testing of an optical computational model, with simulation of forward and reverse light propagation in 3 dimensional space to provide a valid transformation from external to retinal image with sufficient resolution to accurately assess each desired stigmatism.

    Preliminary testing has proven the concept valid, that ray/path-tracing using an optical model can be used to simulate optical distortion due to refraction, and as such provide a pixel to pixel transformation for image distortion. The current implimentation requires extension to 3 dimensions, however this is relatively trivial.


Generation and testing of 2d image distortion to validate various potential testing image schemes (rings, E's, axis-aligned stripes, etc.), ensuring that sufficient visual acuity and focus distortion accuracy can be obtained. Additionally that these images can provide sufficient visual feedback to the user enabling iterative optimisation of optical model parameters.


Finally user testing with reference prescriptions obtained through industry standard procedures to validate the outlined approach and confirm accuracy thresholds, as well as provide user feedback on comfort and ease-of-use.




Details of Current Optical Model Implimentation

Initial parameterisation using "The eye and visual resolution", Bruce H. Walker, OE Reports 166, 1997, SPIE Newsroom, DOI: 10.1117/2.6199710.0001


* dimensions in mm, materials vd = 55

Eye (hollow sphere ~25.4 dia. filled with fluid)

Retina (rear half sufrace sphere, resolve detail 0.3 mm dia. fovea)
    R = -12.5

Vitreous
    n = 1.337

Lens (double convex)
    R1 (inf.) = 10.1
    R1 (near) = 5.95
    R2 = -6.1, cc = -4.5
    n = 1.411

Iris/Pupil (opaque disk, variable dia.)
    Dia. = 2 to 7 (typical 3.5)

Aqueous
    n = 1.336

Cornea (convex, maj. power, surface aspheric with conic const. -0.5, mid sphere to parabolic)
    R1 = 7.8
    R2 = 6.4
    n = 1.377

lens rear to retina rear max = 17.2

lens width (iris to lens rear) = 4.0

cornea front to rear (iris) = 3.0

cornea width = 0.6




Updated Optical Model

H. Liou and N. Brennan, "Anatomically accurate, finite model eye for optical modeling," J. Opt. Soc. Am. A  14, 1684-1695 (1997).

"To the best of our knowledge, the new finite model eyepresented in this paper is the first schematic eye modelthat predicts both chromatic and spherical aberrations ofthe eye within the tolerances of empirical results.  Apartfrom providing optical parameters and serving as a ve-hicle for image-quality calculations, the new model can beconsidered to be a quasi-true anatomical representationof an average emmetropic human eye. Its close anatomi-cal representation to the human eye makes it suitable forstudies investigating visual performance under normal oraltered conditions, such as reshaping of the cornea in re-fractive surgery, estimating vision where the cornea isdistorted, changing the ocular refraction by application ofcontact lenses or spectacle lenses, and even implantationof intraocular lenses."
